--- 
title: "“New web project”, no longer silly."
layout: post
published: false
---
Almost two years ago (_gasp!_), i released the "first version of “New web project”":/new-webproject/. I didn't have to push it live, since all it was used for, was my own personal projects. At the time i took a lot of inspiration from "HTML5 Boilerplate's build script":https://github.com/h5bp/ant-build-script (now in a new incarnation, called "Yeoman":http://yeoman.io/), and threw together this silly project. So why did i? I wanted to learn. I simply wanted to plant a seed and see what it would transform into. * *EDIT* *  How embarrassing it all seemed. That what makes the web _the web_. It's easy to share.

“New web project” did evolve, it did turn into something else. It now uses "Grunt":http://gruntjs.com/, to run all sorts of different tasks. Concatenation, minification, Sass compilation etc. For a long time i've looked for ways to do these kinds of tasks automatically. Manually doing all of these tasks is just frustrating and time consuming. Quite frankly, it makes you not wanting to work with that project anymore. You don't want to be thinking about this stuff. You want to focus on the project, right?

I've tried to get into "node":http://nodejs.org for awhile (which Grunt is built upon), but i just couldn't grasp it or understand why it would benefit me. Maybe the mistake was thinking node was a framework, like "Rails":http://rubyonrails.org. Which it's *clearly* isn't. It's much more than that. Then i also heard about this Grunt thing, and decided to take a look at it. I didn't understand how it worked at first either, but i watched a couple of videos and "read the documentation":http://gruntjs.com/getting-started on the website (which is really good, kudos to the "Grunt-team":https://github.com/gruntjs/grunt/contributors). It wasn't that complicated.

The new version of "“New web project” is now available at Github":https://github.com/carlrafting/new-web-project. It's still mainly for myself, but anyone is welcome to come with suggestions or use it and adapt to their own workflow.
